chore(security): add notices for Optimize 2.4.0 release (#27)
camunda/camunda-docs-static: security/content/notices.md

---
title: "Security Notices"
weight: 70

menu:
  main:
    name: "Notices"
    identifier: "notices"
---

On this page, Camunda publishes security notices _after_ fixes are available.
Fixes are available as patches to the enterprise platform and alpha or minor
releases of the community platform.

# Notices

## Notice 7

**Publication Date: March 29th, 2019**

> In the last months there have been several security audits, which revealed a couple of risk to steal a user session in the Camunda extension Optimize. There the cookie is used to handle the user session and following problems were detected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last months there have been several security audits, which revealed a couple of risks that could allow the theft of a user session in the Camunda extension Optimize. There a cookie is used to handle the user session and following problems were detected:
```

> - The cookie _secure_ flag was not set: This is an option that can be set server-side to make sure that a cookie is only send if the connection is encrypted using HTTPS. Whenever the HTTP connection is disabled in Optimize, this is flag is now set. The purpose is to prevent unauthorized access from other parties and hence to read the session ID. Read more about that in the dedicated OWASP [SecureFlag](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SecureFlag) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cookie _secure_ flag was not set: This is an option that can be set server-side to make sure that a cookie is only send if the connection is encrypted using HTTPS. Whenever the HTTP connection is disabled in Optimize, this flag is now set. The purpose is to prevent unauthorized access from other parties. Read more about that in the dedicated OWASP [SecureFlag](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SecureFlag) guide.
```

> - The cookie _httpOnly_ flag was not set: This is an option that prohibits the access through client side scripts if the browser supports this flag. As a result, an attacker cannot obtain the session from the cookie, even if a cross-site scripting (XXL) flaw is present. Read more about that in the dedicated OWASP [HttpOnly](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/HttpOnly) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cookie _httpOnly_ flag was not set: This is an option that prohibits the access through client side scripts if the browser supports this flag. As a result, an attacker cannot obtain the session from the cookie, even if a cross-site scripting (XSS) flaw is present. Read more about that in the dedicated OWASP [HttpOnly](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/HttpOnly) guide.
```

Author: Haha that's a funny one :D Good catch!

> - The HTTP connection could not be disabled: HTTP is a protocal used to transfer the data. By design, HTTP does not encrypt the data which is being send. This allows unauthorized third parties to intercept the communication and gather data being passed between the two systems. In addition, it is possible to use this protocol to steal the cookie and with it the user session. Hence, it is crucial to be able to disable this insecure commnunication and use it only for easy testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The HTTP connection could not be disabled: HTTP is the protocol used to transfer data between the browser and the server. By design, HTTP does not encrypt the data which is being sent. This allows unauthorized third parties to intercept the communication (Man-in-the-middle attack) to gather data that is being passed between the two systems. This could among exposure of sensible data allow an attacker to steal the user session. Hence, it is crucial to be able to disable this insecure communication and use it only for testing. In production environments only HTTPS should be used.
```

Author: It very much like this improvement! Thanks for adjusting that :-)
